The Romans remained in Britain for 400 years.
They built roads and public buildings,
created a structure of law, and introduced
new plants and animals. It was during the
3rd and 4th centuries AD that the first
Christian communities began to appear in
Britain.

---

Parts of Hadrian's Wall, including the forts of
Housesteads and Vindolanda, can still be seen.
It is a popular area for walkers and is a
UNESCO World Heritage Site.

---

Areasof what is now Scotland were never conquered
by the Romans, and the Emperor Hadrian built a wall
in the north of England to keep out the Picts (
ancestors of the Scottish people).

---

One of the tribal leaders who fought against the
Romans was Boudicca, the queen of Iceni in what
is now eastern England. She is still remembered
today and there is a statue of her on Westminster
Bridge in London, near the Houses of Parliament.

---

Julius Caesar led a Roman invasion of Britain
in 55 BC. This was unsuccessful and for nearly
100 years Britain remained separate from the Roman
Empire. In 43 AD the Emperor Claudius led the Roman
army in a new invasion.

---

Most people were farmers, craft workers or 
warriors. The language they spoke was
part of the Celtic language family.

---

A very impressive hill fort can still be seen
today at Maiden Castle, in the English county
of Dorset.

---

People still lived in roundhouses, grouped together
into larger settlements, and sometimes defended
sites called hill forts.

---

People lived in roundhouses and buried their dead
in tombs called round barrows.

---

Around 4,000 tears ago, people learned to make bronze.

---

Skara Brae on Orkney, off the north coast of
Scotland.

---

Stonehenge, still stands in what is now the
English county of Wiltshire.

---

The first farmers arrived in Britain 6000 years ago.
The ancestors of these farmers probably came from
south-east Europe.

---

Britain only became permanently separated from the
continent by the Channel about 10000 years ago.

---

There are several islands which are closely linked
with the UK but are not part of it. The Channel islands
and the Isle of Man. These have their own governments
and are called 'Crown Dependencies'. There are also
several British overseas territories in other parts
of the world, such as St. Helena and the Falkland Islands.
They are also linked to the UK but are not a part of it.

---

I will give my loyalty to the United Kingdom and
respect it's rights and freedoms. I will uphold it's
democratic values. I will observe it's laws faithfully
and fulfil my duties and obligations as a British citizen.

---

The fundamental principles of British life include:

* Democracy
* The rule of law
* Individual liberty
* Tolerance of those with different faiths and beliefs
* Participation in community life

